Blog Pitch:The goal of this blog is to create a community space for people local to and visiting NC to get a better idea of what farms and farm activities are available. The blog will include recipes, reviews of farmers markets, and personal accounts of visiting local farms. Example Blog Post:They’re more than just potatoes, they’re memories. Potato plants in the mountains of NC are a staple for any farmer. We grow them in gardens, pots, old milk jugs, if it has enough room for even one potato then by golly, it’s going in.Western North Carolina is known for it’s red clay soil and rock filled earth. Anyone who has ever had the joy of hand tilling knows the pristine combination it takes to till and simultaneously throw out rocks. Or, in my experience, the strength it took for my grandfather to till while I stumbled along behind him picking up rocks and laying them to the side. Nothing feels as good as freshly turned dirt on little bare feet.We grew a lot of veggies in our side yard, but my favorite, were the potatoes. I’d sit on our front porch and eagerly cut the spouting eyes off of the potatoes my grandmother forgot were in the hall closet. Even prior to school age I was amazed at how these round spuds could regenerate to the next life cycle. Potatoes were how I learned to use a pocketknife. It was a fine art, you had to leave enough of the body of the potato with the sprout on so that it had nutrients to grow, but you didn’t want to waste time making it all ‘pretty’ as my grandfather would say. By the time I was seven I was skilled in the art of potato eye excavation. Growing the potatoes was fun, but not the best part of the experience. That would have to be the mashed potatoes my grandmother would make at least twice a week. It was a staple in our house. We didn’t always have meat, but we always had potatoes. Mashed potatoes were the first food I learned how to cook, and with it I gained some basic culinary skills. I could boil water, peel, guestimate, and work a masher. While some children grew up on boxed potatoes, I grew up on the real deal. And I don’t care what anyone says, you can taste the difference. As I’ve gotten older I now enjoy my grandmother’s mashed potatoes with a splash of nostalgia thrown in. They remind me of warm family meals, catching fireflies after supper, and the unconditional love my grandparents raised me with.My grandparents have both passed, but I’m glad I can share a moment of their joy with each spoonful of wonderful lumpy white bliss.Betty Gryder’s Mashed PotatoesIngredients:Same number of potatoes as number of people being servedWhole MilkButterSaltPepperInstructions:Step 1: Peel potatoes (it is ok to eat the skin but it is hard for people with dentures to do this)Step 2: Place in a pot so that all of the potatoes are covered in waterStep 3: Boil on high until they are soft to the touch of a forkStep 4: Drain waterStep 5: Mash Potatoes either with a fork or potato masherStep 6: Pour in ? cup milk for two or more potatoesStep 7: Cut two-three ? inch slices of butter and place in mixtureStep 8: Continue mashing and add more milk or butter to tasteStep 9 (optional): Add salt and pepper to taste