Marc Cruciani

As per Dr Cummings suggestion, this proposal is for a landing page on the CFT website about the benefits of small scale, local, sustainable farming.  It should include some information in essay/blog form, and a list of links to community  supported agriculture (CSA) programs and, and could be expanded to include local small farms, farm to fork restaurants, and other sustainable farm resources in North Carolina.  This would have to be regularly updated as new farms, farmers markets, and local farm to food restaurants are identified.  My blog assignment was written with this in mind, could be used in part, in whole, or not at all.  Here are a couple preliminary links for sustainable farm food clubs/subscriptions in North Carolina.  I know these have become popular in the Chapel Hill/Pittsboro area, and offered by several small local farms there.  



Content
It’s dinnertime; do you know where your food came from?  If you bought it at the grocery store, it likely came from an industrial farm, far away, grown with an array of chemicals and pesticides, then shipped hundreds or thousands of miles to land on your plate.  This supply chain degrades soil, air and water, and can affect the health of the underpaid laborers.  The food may even come from other countries, with even less stringent regulations than the U.S. What chemicals were used? How were the animals treated? Or the workers? How much damage was done to the air, the soil, the water?   Where is your money going? Who would you even ask for answers to these questions?
Modern industrial agriculture is a fossil fuel and chemical intensive endeavor.  Vast fields of single crops are cultivated, resulting in a monoculture.  This type of farming depletes soil nutrients, so chemical fertilizers, often derived from fossil fuels, must be continuously added.  When it rains, excess fertilizer, pesticides, and animal waste becomes runoff, ending up in water tables, rivers, and lakes, affecting systems far downstream.  This type of agricultural nutrient runoff into our rivers causes algal blooms, which result in the dead zone in the Gulf of Mexico, fish kills in the Neuse River, and crab jubilees in the Chesapeake.  
These monoculture fields also require weeding, and that means chemical herbicides.  Glyphosate is the most commonly used herbicide worldwide, about 18.9 billion pounds in 2016.  The manufacturers insist it is harmless to humans and wildlife, but there is much disagreement about this.  The World Health Organization International Agency for Research on Cancer listed it as probably carcinogenic to humans in 2015.  In 2017, it was listed as “known to the State of California to cause cancer,” and the European Chemicals Agency classified it as toxic to aquatic life.  It also inhibits some nitrogen fixing bacteria associated with soybeans, so these crops also require more chemical nutrients.  The weeds, of course, fight back.  As of 2014, 23 species of resistant “superweeds” have been identified, requiring new and more toxic herbicides. Glyphosate residue is not tested for by the FDA Pesticide Residue Monitoring Program, or by the Department of Agriculture.  
Food crops also attract insects, and the choice of pesticides are neonicotinoids.  These compounds are very effective at killing insects, including bees and other pollinators necessary for agriculture.  They are also toxic to birds, aquatic life, and other animals.  The European Union has restricted their use, and Switzerland has banned them completely.  They are all legal for use in the USA.
Animal farming is no better; many are raised in concentrated animal feedlots, where they are packed in as closely as possible, and treated with a variety of chemicals to ward off the inevitable diseases spread by close confinement.  The waste is stored in open air ponds or lagoons.  When it rains, they can overflow, and this waste ends up in our rivers.  To avoid this, farmers can spray this untreated sewage directly on crops.  That way when it rains, the sprayed wasted also ends up in the rivers.  
Now imagine a different scenario; one where the food was shipped in from a small farm up the road, grown by a member of your community.  A farm that treats its workers fairly and its animals with care and respect.  One that builds and maintains healthy soil, manages water usage, minimizes air and water pollution, and promotes biodiversity.  A farm that uses few or no pesticides, where you can ask the farmer questions, and see the food being grown.  A farm that provides local foods, creates local jobs, and supports the local economy, while providing you with the freshest produce.  This is the promise of sustainable agriculture.  
The Carolina Farm Trust is dedicated to supporting small, local, sustainable farm operations around the state of North Carolina.  Founded in 2015, the non-profit  supports these farms by purchasing and leasing land to sustainable farms,  funding equipment purchases, and creating marketing campaigns.  On their webpage, you can find information about sustainable agriculture farms in your area, local farm to fork restaurants, farmers markets, and music festivals dedicated to promoting these small community farms. 
It’s dinnertime, and you know exactly where your food came from.  


Community Supported Agriculture
Community supported agriculture, or CSA, is an increasing popular way of purchasing fresh food straight from the farmer.  Consumers purchase a membership or subscription from a local farm, which helps support the farm.  In return, they receive a weekly box of produce, fresh from the farm.  This produce varies throughout the season, depending on what is in season and being grown.  The produce packages can be picked up at the farm or at farmers markets, and some farms even offer mail delivery.  Here are some local CSA farms from North Carolina.

Black River Organic Farm
A small family-operated organic farm in Sampson County.  They are certified organic, and only use organic pesticides, growing traditional and heirloom vegetables.  Visit them at the Poplar Grove Plantation and Wilmington Riverfront farmers markets, or at their website http://blackriverorganicfarm.com/

Heritage Produce at Shelton Herb Farm
Established in 2010 in Leland, North Carolina, they are not certified organic, but they use no synthetic fertilizers, herbicides, or pesticides, and are committed to sustainable and organic farming practices.  Most of their produce is distributed to restaurants and through their CSA program, but they can be visited at the Southport, Downtown Wilmington, and Wrightsville beach farmers markets.  Check out their website at https://www.localharvest.org/heritage-produce-at-shelton-herb-farm-M41901

Jones Family Farm
A family farm in Burgaw, North Carolina, which grows vegetables chemical-free.  They offer a CSA membership from May to July, providing radishes, lettuce, tomatoes, cucumbers peppers, squashes and more.  For more information, or to sign up for CSA membership, visit their website at www.jonesfamilyfarmnc.com

My Sisters Organic Farm
A small family operated farm near Burgaw, North Carolina that is certified organic.  The run a CSA program from May to September, offering a variety of vegetables and herbs.  Weekly boxes contain 15 pounds of food of at least five or six different kinds for $30.  More information available at http://www.ncagr.gov/ncproducts/ShowSite.asp?ID=101729

Veggies By the Sea
A new, small family run farm in Supply, North Carolina dedicated to sustainable farming practices.  The have full and half membership food subscriptions running 13 weeks a year, offering vegetables and eggs from free range hens. You can visit them at the Southport farmers market, or check them out online at http://www.ncagr.gov/ncproducts/ShowSite.asp?ID=101966




 




