10 Local Farms You Must Visit in Eastern North Carolina 
Written by: Destiny Clayton

We all get bored of visiting the same places and doing the same repetitive activities. I guarantee though that there are hidden treasures and local activities around us all to bring the whole family to. A lot of people do not realize that most local farms encourage visits from the public and offer engaging activities to get involved with while there. 

Small family farms are having a harder time competing with the growing agribusiness. We need to support these local farms though since they are the ones giving us fresh produce, applying sustainable agriculture methods, minimizing toxic outputs to our environment, producing minimally processed foods for us, supporting ethical treatment of animals, and many other benefits. Local farmers are a great way to connect with our community. Whether you live in Eastern North Carolina, are on vacation, or even just passing through, here is a list of 10 local farms you want to take a trip to and what you can experience with each one. 

1. Farm: MikeÕs Farm 
Location: Beulaville, NC
Pros: Agri-tourism is the goal of this majestic farm, open year round to visitors and the general public. What this means is that the farm has agriculturally based operations aimed to bring visitors to the farm. They educate the general public on local farms and the processes behind agriculture. 
Activities: This farm has an onsite restaurant with fresh country food so come hungry. They are open for wedding and event reservations as well. Every season holds different activities, whether it is pumpkin picking and hayrides in the fall, Christmas light shows in the winter, or strawberry picking in the summer. MikeÕs Farm has an onsite bakery as well so do not leave before trying some fresh goods. 
Website for further information:
 http://mikesfarm.com

2. Farm: Rainbow Meadow Farms 
Location: Snow Hill, NC
Pros: This is a 300-acre farm with natural grass grazing livestock. The Garner family owns it and they raise their livestock without the use of any chemicals and by using organic compost from their barns. Their meat products are raised sustainably and are nutrient dense. The animals receive a natural diet that has been shown to increase heart health in humans as well. 
Activities: Their products are available at various farmerÕs markets or you can put an order together online and stop at the farm to pick it up. While there, you can see for yourself the ethical treatment of the animals and pastures along with the methods used to provide you with the some of the best produce. 
Website for further information:
http://www.rmfpasturepuremeats.com/About_Us.htm

3. Farm: HubbÕs Farm 
Location: Clinton, NC
Pros: This farm is education based and offers many ways for groups, small or large, to visit their site and learn about various farm practices through fun activities and engagement. You can help share this passion with the Peterson family while having a grand time yourself!
Activities: This is home of HubbÕs Farm Corn Maze for people of all ages. The corn maze is their most popular attraction but while there they offer educational tours and experiences around the farm. You can even schedule to book a party or gathering onsite!
Website for further information: 
http://hubbsfarmnc.com

4. Farm: Lewis Nursery and Farm
Location: Wilmington, NC
Pros: These crops are ethically farmed and harvested for the climate of Eastern North Carolina. Their mission is to please their customers through fresh produce, which in turn provides support for local families and employees. 
Activities: Enjoy a day picking out fresh strawberries and if you are lucky to visit during the summer months, you can also pick fresh blueberries and blackberries. You get to pick as many as you would like, with the price being based off how much your bucket weighs when you are finished. We all love fresh berries! They even have ice cream onsite with their fresh fruit in it. 
Website for further information: http://www.lewisfarms.com

5. Farm: Raised In A Barn Farm 
Location: Chocowinity, NC
Pros: This is another great agritourim focused farm that offers many activities for you to get involved with. The farm is very scenic with native plants and flowers to support the value of native species and harvests. This farm aims to inspire and educate people on the significance of local farms and farmers.
Activities: Their website offers holiday activities for every season as well as upcoming events. This farm is popular for dinner shows, comedy nights, and dance hangouts for all to join so be sure to check often for updates on new events and buy your tickets quick! 
Website for further information: 
http://www.raisedinabarnfarm.com

6. Farm: Southside Farms 
Location: Chocowinity, NC
Pros: Southside is another local farm to visit while in Chocowinity. They grow and provide fresh fruits and vegetables and do so through ethical treatment and harvesting of their crops. 
Activities: Visit this farm during their hours of operation and you get to pick all of your own produce from blackberries to zucchini. Anything you see or purchase onsite is grown onsite as well. While there, tour the farm and meet your farmers. 
Website for further information: 
http://www.southsidefarms.com

7. Farm: Duplin Winery 
Location: Rose Hill, NC
Pros: This is slightly different then a produce farm but the concept remains the same. As a winery located in Duplin County, this facility uses native muscadine grapes to ethically produce some of the best world-class wines onsite. 
Activities: Being 21 years or older makes this a more enjoyable place to visit since you can tour the winery and take part in a wine tasting. At the end of your visit you can visit their local shop to take home some of your favorite tasting wines and snacks. 
Website for further information: 
https://www.duplinwinery.com

8. Farm:  Porter Farms 
Location: Kinston, NC
Pros: Stephen Porter started Porter Farms having been inspired as a child to start his own farm with fresh produce and as a way to inspire and educate the public on local farming. This farm along with most others supports a local family to make a living as well as providing you with fresh goods to eat that are sustainably harvested. 
Activities: With 75 acres of produce and 400 acres in grain production you can visit this farm to pick your own fresh foods, tour the farm, as well as book student or group tours, and even leave with sweets such as delicious ice cream. 
Website for further information: 
http://www.porterfarmskinston.com

9. Farm: Martin Farm and Winery 
Location: Knotts Island, NC
Pros: What makes this farm is unique is that it is also a winery. Using the rich sandy soils here, this family has grown a lot of fresh produce including: strawberries, peaches, apples, tomatoes, and much more. They brew their own beer and wine onsite as well and aim to preserve the nature of the soil and farm. 
Activities: Visiting Martin Farm you can pick your own fruit and produce with some of the most beautiful views of Knotts Island Bay. Produce available depends on what is fresh in season and for those 21 and up, you can enjoy some wine or beer while choosing your fresh goods to go home with. 
Website for further information: 
https://www.martinfarmandwinery.com

10. Farm: Jackson Farm
Location: Godwin, NC
Pros: Jackson FarmÕs goal is to supply seasonal food through the use of sustainable agriculture. Along with their 150-acre farm, they have a wildlife sanctuary onsite to support further efforts to protect and sustain nature. 
Activities: You can choose to stay overnight in their guesthouse and get a true family farm feel or you can stop by and tour the land along with pre-civil war buildings. There is a birding trail that offers scenic views of untouched nature. Stay and relax here for a bit!
Website for further information: 
http://www.jacksonfarm.info
