“There are two spiritual dangers in not owning a farm. One is the danger of supposing that breakfast comes from the grocery, and the other that heat comes from the furnace.”
* Aldo Leopold, A Sand County Almanac


‘Changin’ Ways LLC’ is the name of the farm. I am examining a carton of eggs on a green lawn in Wilmington, North Carolina. No two eggs are alike. Some are greenish, some brown, others a familiar white. A whole pastel array of colors you typically only find on easter eggs.
David Borkowski, the owner, welcomes me with a broad smile and hearty ‘good morning.’
“These are the larger ones,” he points out.
“They’re all going to be different colors, like this green one here. They’re fresh as can be.” 
I look at the box, and sure enough it says, “Laid May 22nd.” I haven’t seen eggs like this in ages, since living in Boone. Such finds are a treat.
“I’ll take them.” I say excitedly. 
I have no bag with me, so I pick them up to carry them to my car with a gentle caution I would normally reserve for a small child. I thank David, and he thanks me back. The sincerity in his voice is infectious. 


The Tidal Creek Co-op Farmer’s Market is the sole producer-only market of its kind in the area. Year-round, vendors from across the area set up from every Saturday morning from 8 am 1 pm. It’s a modest and simple scene, a departure from many of the festival-esque farmers markets I’ve frequented in the past. A handful of small, local farmers frame the verdant space outside of the Tidal Creek Food Co-op. The morning I visited, maybe 10-12 tents were up and operating. But between them was anything and everything you could hope for: carrots, radishes, fresh flowers, tomatoes, honey, wax-spun candles, greens, and the sweetest strawberries and blueberries around. All the vendors were bright-eyed and friendly, often greeting their regular customers warmly, like old friends.
 
Over the past few decades, farmers markets have been thriving in the United States. Today, there are over 8,400 farmers markets in the USDA’s directory, nearly triple the number of markets that existence in 1994, and demand continues to rise.  Customer traffic can increase as much as 64% between only two seasons at markets across the United States, and new markets are created every year nationwide in order to keep up with this demand. The products offered are high-quality and suited to the local environment in which they were grown. At most, the furthest a product may travel to reach a farmers market is less than 50 miles away. No preservatives, no bland unseasonal fruit, and almost always organic. It is easy to see why customers continue to flock to farmers markets.


But back at Tidal Creek, I start to wonder if there is also something else, something a little less tangible, also bringing people to these little local outdoor markets. As I weave around tents filled to the brim with colorful produce, speak to the farmers, and pick the choicest batches of the berry bunches, I begin to notice a scene unfolding before me. Dozens of people doing the same thing, the early morning erupting in lively conversation, exchange, and activity. I compare it to the stale coldness of corporate food stores and the impersonal, mechanical experience of shopping for groceries, and finally begin to understand. Farmers markets offer americans a place to reconnect with their food, their communities, and their environment. In short, the marketplace as it was meant to be: personal, sustinant, and social. 


The USDA expects that farmers markets will continue to experience exponential growth in the coming years. After decades of frozen meals and fast food dinners, a cultural shift backs towards sustainable, locally grown food seems to be taking place in American households. The USDA currently keeps track of every farmers market registered in the United States, and will search for all your local markets here. But make sure you hurry. “Come and get em while they last,” says Tidal Creek in a post about a batch of recently arrived heirloom tomatoes, “It’s gonna be a busy day at the market.”
